---
layout: post
title: KPIs
description: 
categories: 
  - Business
tags: [business]
---

Metrics are special numbers that help to ask and answer the right business question. Numbers that we can impact when changing business processes.

## Vanity vs actionable

Actionable metrics are tied to specific and repeatable tasks you can improve and to the goals of your business. If a metric isn’t actionable and you can’t do anything to make it better then why are you tracking it?

Numbers or stats that look good on paper are good to bring you a macro view of the project. 
The number of your visitors, subscribers, and followers are good for feeling awesome, but hey don’t offer clear guidance for what to do. They aren’t completely meaningless, but they aren’t what you should be spending the majority of your time or energy on.

By focusing our time and energy on vanity metrics and then sharing them with you we were doing the exact opposite of what we are trying to do here. Instead of helping you focus on the strategies and actions you can take to build a successful and honest online business we were distracting you with numbers, charts, and graphs that were educational, but weren’t even the actionable metrics that we were tracking day to day.

## Twitchy vs noisy

Noisy metrics are those affected by many variables combining together (e.g. total annual sales is made up of sales from a number of campaigns, each performing to its own level). Twitchy metrics, on the other hand, are affected by just a small number of short-term events which are in our control (e.g. sales within one campaign being impacted by number and effectiveness of email reminders sent).

## Dynamic vs traditional

It is likely to change significantly in a short timeframe (within one month or less). There are actions the company can take now (or in the very short term) which will significantly impact the metric in the short term.


Key Result Indicator (KRI) - how you have done
Performance Indicador (PI) - what to do
Key Performance Indicator (KPI) - what to do. to increace performance dramatically

KRI
.Customer satisfaction
.Net profit before tax
.Profitability of customers
.Return on capital employed
.Profitability of the top 10% customers

These measures are the result of many actions.
Clear picture of wheter you are traveling in the right direction.
Reviewed on monthly/quaterly cycles
Impact on reporting


KPI
Nonfinancial measures
Measured frequently: Reviewed on daily/weekly
Tie responsability to the individual or team
Positive and significant impact (affect in a positive way the core critical success factor)
Understanding of the measure and the corrective action required by all staff
Current or future-oriented measures

> KPI Models should start off small and experimental.

KPI Models are risky because …
•	they are new,
•	the first choice of KPIs may be incorrect,
•	the information may not be readily available,
•	people may not welcome large scale change, etc.
So, while the prize is small, keep the risk low. Do your “chicken test” early. 

Convert your model into a spreadsheet, and test it over an extended period in the functional unit that it serves. Observe the response. Here are a few important questions.
•	Is the result consistent with other observations of performance?
•	How do people respond to changes in KPIs.
•	Does decision making improve?
•	Does performance improve?
•	Do other units want to try it out?