---
layout: post
title: Deploying machine learning models
description: uhuul
categories: 
  - Machine Learning
tags: [machine learning]
---

# What are APIs?
In simple words, an API is a (hypothetical) contract between 2 softwares saying if the user software provides input in a pre-defined format, the later with extend its functionality and provide the outcome to the user software.

Web APIs have made it easy for cross-language applications to work well. If a frontend developer needs to use your ML Model to create a ML powered web application, they would just need to get the URL Endpoint from where the API is being served.

Sounds marvellous right! In this article, we’ll understand how to create our own Machine Learning API using Flask, a web framework in Python.

# Creating a Machine Learning Model

We’ll be taking up the Machine Learning competition: Loan Prediction Competition. The main objective is to set a pre-processing pipeline and creating ML Models with goal towards making the ML Predictions easy while deployments.


# Saving Machine Learning Model : Serialization & Deserialization

> In computer science, in the context of data storage, serialization is the process of translating data structures or object state into a format that can be stored (for example, in a file or memory buffer, or transmitted across a network connection link) and reconstructed later in the same or another computer environment.

# Creating an API using Flask

[docker](https://www.analyticsvidhya.com/blog/2017/11/reproducible-data-science-docker-for-data-science/)